Lesson 6.1 Implementing Network Services 
Sunny video Ports. Ports are associated with IP addresses. IP addresses locate nodes geographically. netstat dispays current network and port activity: netstat -n = active connections.
FTP transfers files over the internet using port 21. Private compuntrer assigned itself dynamic empheral port numbers. netstat -an command brings up listening activity to boot. 
Sunny video Session, connection, sockets, and Ephemeral ports ... Sessions keep track of connections. IP address and Port number = Socket. Intenet Assigned numbers authority IANA assigns port numbers.
Connection means medium or channel connected for communication.
Session refers to the limited time of the conversation between two systems. 
TCP transmission control protocol data arrives in order on time. 3 way handshake: 1syn. 2.syn ack and 3. ACK recieved. Guarenteed delivery or resends data. UDP video Powercert Videos. udp is connectionless fire and forget protocol. UDP is faster than TCP.
Sunny Classroom Video Port numbers Three types of port numbers (0-65,535) ... Sunny Classroom  Three-way handshake, TCP ... in Detail. 
netsat short for Network Statistics, Powercert Video. netstat -n shows numbers not names and is faster because its not using DNS to resolve numbers to names.
netsat -a shows more including listening ports. netstat -b shows program used to make the connection. netstat -f displays fully qualified domain name.
netstat ? shows all options. Linux uses ss and options like netstat.
SCP port 22 on the Network+ test.
Powercert Video DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration protocol static IP is wher auser assignds and I.P. address manualally. Daynamic IP is where a computer fgetts and I.P. address automatically from a scope which has range. ipconfig /all to check DHCP setting display. Addresses are leased so as to not run from its scope.
Reservation from DHCP service are given to printers, servers, routers and such. ipconfig /release, ipconfig /renew to get new ip address? 
DHCP relay agent (ITFreeTraining video) helps the DHCP servers broadcast go through to other subnets.
Router/Gateways can be configured to be DHCP relay agents. 
Sunny Classroom IPv6 video discussing SLAAC is related to DHCP, Stateless
IANA- The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority 
In TCP and UDP applications, a unique number assigned to a particular application protocol. Server posts are typically assigned well-known or registered numbers while client ports use dynamic or ephemeral numbering.
